Okay, so what else with images?
We now have lazy load.
So with lazy load, we can apply
loading="lazy" to some images.
What's the idea?
The idea is to lazy load images
that are not in the viewport, so
are not currently visible,
they're not in the above default.
When you start scrolling and those images
are becoming to be in the viewport,
not exactly, it's not waiting for
them to be in the viewport, it's when it
feels like you will see more images,
it then goes and loads those images there.
This has pros and cons,
because yeah, when you scroll,
you may see some white spaces,
because the image is not there yet.
But also what it's doing is clearing
up the bandwidth for the initial load.
So we're not downloading everything.
So, for example, in our case, we do have,
let me close this,
images that typically can be there.
Before HTML support in this, we were
typically using JavaScript libraries,
some external dependencies that were
looking at the scroll event and
verifying the position of images and
loading these with lazy load.
Well, now it's pretty simple,
it's just loading=lazy.
So we can go to our code, script.js,
and add to the images loading="lazy".
So if the image is in the viewport when
the page loads, it won't change a thing.
If it's below, it won't download the image
until it's close to appear on the screen.
Which again, well, probably,
not everyone is scrolling your websites,
it depends on the website, but
sometimes it's even less than 20%.
And why are you downloading resources
that 80% of your user won't see?
Well, that will also leave your
server a little bit more space
to do other stuff, so it helps a lot.
Should we use loading="lazy"
with everything?
No, not really.
Definitely not for
LCP images, definitely not.
So for our LCP image that
now is embedded in the HTML,
talking about this one,
don't use lazy load.
Because a lazy load also change
your priority to low, and no,
we want high priority, okay, on that one.
Remember, don't mess with your LCP image.
Also something to play with,
it's async image decoding.
So this is something that we
don't have enough research yet
to have a final conclusion on when it's
a good idea to change that or not, but
decoding the image is actually a process
that is being done in the main thread.
It's not the biggest of
the deals in page loading, okay?
This is taking the bytes of a JPEG and
actually getting a bitmap on the screen,
that's decoding the image.
You can actually say sync or async.
When the image is really important,
you want sync, because,
okay, you just stop everything and go and
decode that image as soon as possible.
I want you to do that when you have time,
no, no, no, now.
So decoding sync, we have a candidate for
decoding sync, our LCP image.
Does it make sense?
Decoding="sync", because this is the most
important image for our web vitals.
And remember, it's not because of the sake
of performance, or the sake of having good
web vitals, it's because that will
improve user's perception, and
that will increase business opportunities
and conversion for our websites.
That's why we're doing this, okay?
So web fonts,
someone asked about web fonts here,
I have more and more info on that.
We try avoid FOUT, Flash of Unstyled Text.
Remember I mentioned that text
by default is non-blocking, and
when we add web fonts,
we are converting that into blocking.
Well, something that we can do is
to use font-display optional or
font-display swap.
And in this case, every browser might
change the implementation of this,
but we are saying, hey,
let's start with swap.
If you say font-display swap,
the browser will first, it will wait.
It will start downloading the font.
You have a title with a nice font.
It will download the font, but
it will wait 200 milliseconds around that.
If within 200 milliseconds it
cannot get the web font yet,
it will render the text with
the next font in the list.
Font family has
a comma-separated list of fonts.
And when the font appears,
it will swap the font.
So you will see kind of a flash.
I mean, it's Times New Roman and
then it's a fancy font.
Optional, it says, you know what,
if you can't load the font,
it's okay, go ahead with the next one.
In this case, typically the browsers
are waiting a little more.
It can wait 100 milliseconds.
If the web font is not ready, at that
point, they say, okay, we give up, let's
move to the next font, and it will render
the text immediately with the next font.
You won't see a flash and
you won't see a text for
some milliseconds, but not forever.
Make sense?
Let's go to our example.
In the case of web font, today, well,
I think this is the one
I pasted from Google.
You can add that property in the URL,
such as in this case, display=swap.
In this case, we are asking
Google to add font display swap.
But if you don't want swap and you want
optional, you can say optional here.
And in our case,
it will use the next font in the list.
So if Inter is not within one second,
it will go to Sans Serif, or
I can have Arial, whatever.
Make sense?
With that, you will avoid
that flash of unstyled text.
Sometimes you get into your website,
you see buttons,
you see a logo, and nothing else.
You see, well, why we have whites around?
Because the font is still loading.
The text is there, the browser
is ready to render the text, but
it doesn't have the font.
There are more things to do about
fonts than we have in API, so
you can check if the font is installed.
If it's installed,
you can use the installed version
of the font instead of downloading.
So if you wanna get more into web fonts,
there are much more to read about that.